---
layout: post
title: "Reflections on my 2024"
categories: diary
tags: indie hacking
header-image: /images/2024-code.png
---

_The video of this post is [here][yt-video]_

It's that time of the year again, it's time to look back and reflect on my professional journey in 2024.

I feel like I can split my year in 3 parts. From January to February, I was still working as a freelancer, finishing the last projects and preparing to jump into entrepreneurship full time. From April to August, I didn't do any client work and focused on launching and marketing my own products. From September to December, I just focused on my newborn daughter and set aside all my professional ambition. I hope not forever because that's not gonna work financially, and I'll end up under a bridge.

So yeah let's focus on what went well and what didn't go so well in these 3 periods.

## Freelancing (January-February)

At the beginning of the year it became clear to me that I wanted to reduce the time spent freelancing and spend more time building and growing my own products. The idea was to still freelance a bit on the side, maybe 2 days per week, but the circumstances led me to closing all my collaborations and focusing on my products instead.

One of clients I was working with, never paid me. In January, they had 6 months old invoices not paid. I wrote the CEO of the company (he is Italian) if they forgot to pay them. He candidly replied me they didn't hear from me since a long time, so they thought I was not interested anymore. I had sent them weekly updates via email and Slack, but apparently if you are not in the office you don't exist for these people. They had more than €3k in unpaid invoices.

Another Italian client was eager to keep working with me, but when they heard I was planning to spend a significant amount of time in Moscow in 2024, since my wife was expecting a baby and wanted to be close to her family, they backed down. Russia is in the black list of many organizations. You are not allowed to work from here even if you are not under sanctions. Even Upwork blocks its site to users from Russia.

So, at the end of the month, I found myself without clients and I chose not to look for new ones, since my plan was to bootstrap a business anyway.

## Bootstrapping a business (March-August)

Once I closed all my contracts I looked at the opportunities I had. In 2023 I had built two SEO based websites, datainternships.co and stoicquotes.co. The idea was to grow them via SEO and monetize them eventually. So I decided to double down on them and also to work on a new product, Xtopics.

I launched Xtopics in March, after working on it for 2-3 weeks. The idea was to build a topic analytics tool for X. Unfortunately, I don't have the budget for the very expensive X API, so I went for a solution that would allow the users to upload their tweets and get the analytics. Very few people registered and none bought the lifetime subscription. It was a total flop. I think it was because there was too much friction in the download tweets and upload option. It usually takes around 24 hours to get all your tweets from X. And you would have to do it once a month or so to get updated reports. But later in June, Threads opened up their API and I saw an opportunity to pivot. I started to actively write the app in July and this time it took me longer. Since the API so new, I had to write the authentication from scratch and it took me more than 1 month to get a working prototype. And another couple of weeks for the Beta testing. In the end I launched at the end of August and I must say the launch went better than I expected. I made a funny video for the launch, and got 27 upvotes. And most importantly I sold a few lifetime licenses. 
 

## [X Topics][xtopics]

This month I spent most of the time implementing new features requested by my current users, with the goal to improve the product and make it more useful.

- Added **color coding** for the most popular topics and posts.
- Added a **topic leaderboard** to show what are the trending topics on Threads right now.

I already use the product a lot, and it is quite important for me when I sit on my desk every Sunday and write the content for the coming week. I hope others find it useful too, but from what I can see from the analytics, **very few users are coming back** to the product every week. I think I must build some kind of reminder, so that people are motivated to come to the tool more often. Probably a **weekly automated email** that shows personalized statistics on their **best topics of the week** could do the trick.

I **increased the price** this month, from $15 to $25 for the lifetime deal. Pretty steep increase, but I think it was not sustainable at the previous price, and I am adding more value to the tool, so hopefully people will keep buying.

My goal this month was to add 3 more paying users. Although I had a few signups, none of them converted to paid, so November has been the first month when **I didn't acquire new paying users** after the launch. It's probably time to find the famous marketing channel that will consistently bring new customers every month.

## [Soccrbets][soccrbets]

I have worked on **improving the existing automations**, to reduce the manual effort of writing articles and creating predictions to a minimum. I have managed to automate more stuff and right now the only manual thing that is left for me to do is to post on Reddit. Everything else is running on its own, hopefully without bugs.

The initial goal with the website, was to **drive traffic to my Gumroad page** and acquire more readers for my books. This doesn't look like it worked, because I can only see 4 users coming from the website and none of them bought anything. But I will keep posting, since the **TG channel has doubled the number of subscribers** in one month, and we are now at 22 subs. This could be another marketing channel. I am not going to promote anything there yet, but I think once we reach 100+ subscribers it can become an interesting marketing channel for my books, and a source of ideas for other products related to soccer analytics.

I have also posted a [new video][yt-video] about creating a soccer betting model on YT. In this period I went **from 5 to 15 subscribers** and reached more than 200 views. Small numbers, but I am confident they can grow if I keep publishing videos in the next months.

## The cashflow

Time to look at the income for this month.

| Item               | Income/Expense |
| ------------------ | -------------- |
| Amazon book sales  | + $164.31      |
| Gumroad book sales | + $150.36      |
| Appliku            | - $10.00       |
| Hetzner            | - $5.31        |
| Twitter blue       | - $10.68       |
| HuggingFace        | - $1.05        |
| Total              | + $287.63      |

A bit of a jump in revenue, certainly due to the **Black Friday deals** on my books. I advertised the deal on several online directories and made good sales, although less than expected. In comparison, I made 70 sales on Gumroad last year in November. This year, only 20.s
Last year, I made $8k+ in November, it was one of my most successful months as a freelancer and solopreneur. It shows that things change quickly and not always for the better.

**Tax season** is coming in Italy, which means I will have to pay taxes on my 2023 revenue as a freelancer soon. Should be around €10k+ which will cut my runway quite a bit. I am already finding myself looking at Upwork and various job offers. I would like not to go back to a job, but I might not have a choice.

[soccrbets]: https://soccrbets.com
[xtopics]: https://xtopics.co
[datainternships]: https://datainternships.co
[highsignal]: https://www.highsignal.io/
[telegram]: https://t.me/soccrbets
[yt-video]: https://youtu.be/4US_E-1cL0w
[tg-datafreelance]: https://t.me/datafreelance
[datafreelance-blog]: https://www.tropianhs.com/diary/2023/11/12/data-science-freelance
[offerbutton]: https://offerbutton.com/
[yt-video]: https://youtu.be/pEM8ouZRCfw
